OSDOCS-17693: adds install to MCP gateway docs (#109364)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/proc-mcp-gateway-install-olm-ext-cr.adoc

[IMPORTANT]
====
Each namespace can only have one `MCPGatewayExtension` CR.
Each `Gateway` object can have only one `MCPGatewayExtension` CR.
====

.Prerequisites

* You installed {ocp}.
* You installed {oc-first}.
* You installed {prodname}.
* You installed the {mcpg} Operator.
* You configured at least one listener.

.Procedure

. Create an `MCPGatewayExtension` CR by using the following example as a template:
+
.Example MCPGatewayExtension CR
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes"]
----
apiVersion: mcp.kuadrant.io/v1alpha1
kind: MCPGatewayExtension
metadata:
  name: _<mcp_gateway_one>_
  namespace: _<mcp_system>_
spec:
  targetRef:
    group: gateway.networking.k8s.io
    kind: Gateway
    name: _<mcp_gateway>_
    namespace: _<gateway_system>_
    sectionName: mcp
  httpRouteManagement: Enabled
----
* Replace `_<mcp_gateway_one>_` and `_<mcp_system>_` with the name and namespace you want to use.
* The `spec.targetRef.sectionName:` value must be the same as name of the listener on the gateway. In this example, `mcp` is used.

> * The `spec.targetRef.namespace:` value must be same `namespace:` value as the listener you created. In this example, `_<gateway_system>_` is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `spec.targetRef.namespace:` value must be the namespace of the Gateway object where you created your listener. In this example, `_<gateway_system>_` is used.
```

Nit

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// *mcp_gateway_install/mcp-gateway-install.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="proc-mcp-gateway-install-olm-ext-cr_{context}"]
= Applying the MCPGatewayExtension custom resource

[role="_abstract"]
To finish your installation of the MCP gateway deployment Operator by using Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM), create a `MCPGatewayExtension` custom resources (CR) manually and apply it to complete your initial setup. After the extension is ready, both an `HTTPRoute` object and an Envoy filter are automatically created.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Each namespace can only have one `MCPGatewayExtension` CR.
Each `Gateway` object can have only one `MCPGatewayExtension` CR.
====

.Prerequisites

* You installed {ocp}.
* You installed {oc-first}.

> * You installed {prodname}.

Reviewer 2: No need for Connectivity Link for this

====
//re: https://github.com/Kuadrant/mcp-gateway/issues/776

. Apply the CR by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal,subs="+quotes"]
----
$ oc apply -f _<mcp_gateway_one>_
----
+
Replace `_<mcp_gateway_one>_` with name you used.

. Wait for the `MCPGatewayExtension` controller to be ready by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal,subs="+quotes"]
----
$ oc wait --for=condition=Ready mcpgatewayextension/_<mcp_gateway_one>_ -n _<mcp_system>_
----
+
* Replace `_<mcp_gateway_one>_` with name you used.
* Replace `_<mcp_system>_` with name of your MCP gateway deployment.
+
.Example successful output
[source,text]
----
mcpgatewayextension.mcp.kuadrant.io/mcp-gateway-one condition met
----
+
.Example failure output
[source,text]
----
error: timed out waiting for the condition on mcpgatewayextensions/mcp-gateway-one
----

. Verify that the automatic `HTTProute` object is created by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal,subs="+quotes"]
----

> $ oc get httproute mcp-gateway-route -n _<mcp_gateway_one>_

Reviewer 2: I would use _<mcp_system>_ here. The HTTPRoute CR is created in the same namespace as the MCPGatewayExtension CR.

My understanding is that _<mcp_system>_ is the namespace where MCP Gateway bits and pieces are installed (Controller, Broker/Router, MCPGatewayExtension CR etc) and _<gateway_namespace>_ is the namespace where Gateway CR is created

It would be good to use this consistently throughout the guide, I can see three occurrences of `gateway-namespace` in this PR, you can update these accordingly

Author: Instances of `gateway-namespace` do refer to the Gateway CR. Not sure what is needed here.

* You installed {oc-first}.
* You installed {prodname}.
* You installed the {mcpg} Operator.
* You configured at least one listener.

.Procedure

. Create an `MCPGatewayExtension` CR by using the following example as a template:
+
.Example MCPGatewayExtension CR
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes"]
----
apiVersion: mcp.kuadrant.io/v1alpha1
kind: MCPGatewayExtension
metadata:
  name: _<mcp_gateway_one>_
  namespace: _<mcp_system>_
spec:
  targetRef:
    group: gateway.networking.k8s.io
    kind: Gateway
    name: _<mcp_gateway>_
    namespace: _<gateway_system>_
    sectionName: mcp
  httpRouteManagement: Enabled
----
* Replace `_<mcp_gateway_one>_` and `_<mcp_system>_` with the name and namespace you want to use.
* The `spec.targetRef.sectionName:` value must be the same as name of the listener on the gateway. In this example, `mcp` is used.
* The `spec.targetRef.namespace:` value must be same `namespace:` value as the listener you created. In this example, `_<gateway_system>_` is used.
* The value of the `sectionName:` parameter must match the listener `name:` value defined on your `Gateway` object in the `_<gateway_system>_` namespace. In this example, `mcp` is used.

> * The default setting of `spec.httpRouteManagement: Enabled` means automatically maintainted `HTTPRoute` objects to ensure that traffic for discovered MCP tools is correctly routed through the `Gateway` object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The default setting of `spec.httpRouteManagement: Enabled` means automatically maintained `HTTPRoute` objects to ensure that traffic for discovered MCP tools is correctly routed through the `Gateway` object.
```

* If you need to create a customized `HTTPRoute` CR, you can set the `spec.httpRouteManagement:` field value to `Disabled`.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
In the MCP gateway Technology Preview version, `0.6.0`, you must set the `spec.httpRouteManagement:` field value to `Disabled` and create a customized managed `HTTPRoute` CR if you are using OAuth. This is a workaround for a Known Issue. See the {prodname} 1.3.3 release notes for details.
====
//re: https://github.com/Kuadrant/mcp-gateway/issues/776

. Apply the CR by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal,subs="quotes+"]
----
$ oc apply -f _<mcp_gateway_one>_
----
+
Replace _<mcp_gateway_one>_ with name you used.

. Wait for the `MCPGatewayExtension` controller to be ready by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal,subs="quotes+"]
----

> $ oc wait --for=condition=Ready mcpgatewayextension/_<mcp_gateway_one>_ -n mcp-test --timeout=60s

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ oc wait --for=condition=Ready mcpgatewayextension/_<mcp_gateway_one>_ -n _<mcp_system>_ --timeout=60s
```

----
+
Replace _<mcp_gateway_one>_ with name you used.

> //Q: can we provide an example output?

Reviewer: on sucess: 
  `mcpgatewayextension.mcp.kuadrant.io/mcp-gateway-one condition met`

on failure:
  `error: timed out waiting for the condition on mcpgatewayextensions/mcp-gateway-one`

. Verify that the automatic `HTTProute` object is created by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal,subs="quotes+"]
----
$ oc get httproute mcp-gateway-route -n _<mcp_gateway_one>_
----
+
Replace _<mcp_gateway_one>_ with name you used.

> //Q: can we provide an example output?

Reviewer: example of table output 

NAME                          HOSTNAMES                   AGE
mcp-gateway-route   ["mcp.example.com"]     5m
